README.md, before:


# NSPanel HAUI (HomeAssistant UI)

`nspanel_haui` is a versatile display system for HomeAssistant based smart homes.

![Panel](docs/assets/home_panel.png)

- [NSPanel HAUI (HomeAssistant UI)](#nspanel-haui-homeassistant-ui)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Next Steps](#next-steps)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Resources](#resources)

## About

For details about the configuration see [Configuration](docs/Config.md). Also look at [Panels](docs/panels/README.md) to get an overview of available panels.

## Features

- **Easy Installation**

  The nspanel_haui will load most parts of the required files automatically. Only the initial ESPHome flashing process is needed. After this all parts will be updated by the AppDaemon app.

- **Device display configuration in a single yaml file**

  ![Config](docs/assets/feature_config.png)

  The whole configuration is located in the `apps.yaml` file. The configuration is done per device.

- **Optimized custom ESPHome component**

  ![Custom component](docs/assets/feature_custom_component.png)

  For the communication between the esp32 and the nextion display a custom component `nspanel_haui` is used. It provides basic functionality like `send_command`, `get_int_value`, `get_txt_value`, etc. and also generates events for button presses and other changes on the display.

- **A variety of different panels**

  ![Panels 1](docs/assets/feature_panels_1.png)

  ![Panels 2](docs/assets/feature_panels_2.png)

  Select from different [Panels](docs/panels/README.md) that can be displayed on the panel.

- **Touch gestures and sequences**

  ![Touch](docs/assets/feature_touch.png)

  Different touch gestures as swipe left or right are supported. There is also support for gesture sequences.

- **Live state updates**

  ![Touch](docs/assets/feature_live_update.png)

  The display will update when a entity state changes. All entities being displayed will notify about changes and the display will update.

- **Button and relay states, coupled and uncoupled relays**

  ![Buttons](docs/assets/feature_buttons.png)

  The buttons can be used in a couped state, so that by button presses, the relay will get activated. It is also possible to disable the relay and use the physical buttons as software buttonms.

- **Dimming of the display after a timeout**

  ![Dimming](docs/assets/feature_dimming.png)

  The display will automatically dim its brightness after a timeout.

- **Sleep display change after a timeout**

  ![Sleep](docs/assets/feature_sleep.png)

  The display can switch to a page after a timeout. There are sleep and wakeup panels possible.

- **Locking/Unlocking mechanism for panels**

  ![Unlock](docs/assets/feature_unlock.png)

  All panels can be locked by a pin code. The panel can be accessed after entering the pin code.

- **Device settings in HomeAssistant**

  ![Config](docs/assets/feature_settings.png)

  The whole device configuration can be done in HomeAssistant.

## Installation

In order to install NSPanel HAUI it is neccessary to flash the Panel with ESPHome.

The simplified process is as followed:

1. Flash Panel with [ESPHome](docs/ESPHome.md)
2. Update [Display TFT](docs/Nextion.md)
3. Install [AppDaemon App](docs/AppDaemon.md)
4. Add [Configuration](docs/Config.md)

Take a look at the more detailed [Installation Guide](docs/Install.md). Have also a look at the [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md).

## Next Steps

- [Documentation](docs/README.md)
- [Panels Overview](docs/panels/README.md)
- [Example Configurations](docs/Example_Config.md)
- [Icons Cheatsheet](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/happydasch/nspanel_haui/master/docs/cheatsheet.html)
- [Thread in HomeAssistant Community](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/sonoff-nspanel-haui-homeassistant-ui/578570)

## Development

For details about how the parts of the whole system communicate together see [NSPanel HomeAssistant UI Docs](docs/README.md).

- [Design Guidelines](docs/Design.md)
- [Communication Description](docs/Communication.md)
- [ESPHome Component](docs/ESPHome.md)
- [AppDaemon Component](docs/AppDaemon.md)
- [Nextion Component](docs/Nextion.md)

## Resources

The project is based on the ideas of [NSPanel Lovelace UI](https://github.com/joBr99/nspanel-lovelace-ui) and [NSPanel Custom with HA Blueprint](https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint).

- https://esphome.io
- https://nextion.tech/instruction-set/
- https://docs.nspanel.pky.eu/
- https://github.com/joBr99/nspanel-lovelace-ui
- https://github.com/joBr99/Generate-HASP-Fonts
- https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint
- https://github.com/masto/NSPanel-Demo-Files
- https://github.com/marcfager/nspanel-mf
- https://github.com/krizkontrolz/Home-Assistant-nextion_handler

Commit message:

fixes #6 cleanup, fixes and missing functionality
Select

Allow to select multiple items

Media Player

Added media, group, source buttons
Allow to group/ungroup media players
Allow to use sonos favorites as a media source

Vacuum

allow to pause / stop when vacuum is returning

updated README

code cleanups and fixes

README.md, after:


# NSPanel HAUI (HomeAssistant UI)

`nspanel_haui` is a versatile display system for HomeAssistant based smart homes.

![Panel](docs/assets/home_panel.png)

- [NSPanel HAUI (HomeAssistant UI)](#nspanel-haui-homeassistant-ui)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Next Steps](#next-steps)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [Resources](#resources)

## About

NSPanel HAUI was started as a replacement for the original Sonoff Firmware. It provides a flexible way to configure the display and to control devices connected to home assistant.

For details about the configuration see [Configuration](docs/Config.md). Also look at [Panels](docs/panels/README.md) to get an overview of available panels.

## Features

- **Easy Installation**

  The nspanel_haui will load most parts of the required files automatically. Only the initial ESPHome flashing process is needed. After this all parts will be updated by the AppDaemon app.

- **Device display configuration in a single yaml file**

  ![Config](docs/assets/feature_config.png)

  The whole configuration is located in the `apps.yaml` file. The configuration is done per device.

- **Optimized custom ESPHome component**

  ![Custom component](docs/assets/feature_custom_component.png)

  For the communication between the esp32 and the nextion display a custom component `nspanel_haui` is used. It provides basic functionality like `send_command`, `get_int_value`, `get_txt_value`, etc. and also generates events for button presses and other changes on the display.

- **A variety of different panels**

  ![Panels 1](docs/assets/feature_panels_1.png)

  ![Panels 2](docs/assets/feature_panels_2.png)

  Select from different [Panels](docs/panels/README.md) that can be displayed on the panel.

- **Touch gestures and sequences**

  ![Touch](docs/assets/feature_touch.png)

  Different touch gestures as swipe left or right are supported. There is also support for gesture sequences.

- **Live state updates**

  ![Touch](docs/assets/feature_live_update.png)

  The display will update when a entity state changes. All entities being displayed will notify about changes and the display will update.

- **Button and relay states, coupled and uncoupled relays**

  ![Buttons](docs/assets/feature_buttons.png)

  The buttons can be used in a couped state, so that by button presses, the relay will get activated. It is also possible to disable the relay and use the physical buttons as software buttonms.

- **Dimming of the display after a timeout**

  ![Dimming](docs/assets/feature_dimming.png)

  The display will automatically dim its brightness after a timeout.

- **Sleep display change after a timeout**

  ![Sleep](docs/assets/feature_sleep.png)

  The display can switch to a page after a timeout. There are sleep and wakeup panels possible.

- **Locking/Unlocking mechanism for panels**

  ![Unlock](docs/assets/feature_unlock.png)

  All panels can be locked by a pin code. The panel can be accessed after entering the pin code.

- **Device settings in HomeAssistant**

  ![Config](docs/assets/feature_settings.png)

  The whole device configuration can be done in HomeAssistant.

## Installation

In order to install NSPanel HAUI it is neccessary to flash the Panel with ESPHome.

The simplified process is as followed:

1. Flash Panel with [ESPHome](docs/ESPHome.md)
2. Update [Display TFT](docs/Nextion.md)
3. Install [AppDaemon App](docs/AppDaemon.md)
4. Add [Configuration](docs/Config.md)

Take a look at the more detailed [Installation Guide](docs/Install.md). Have also a look at the [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md).

## Next Steps

- [Documentation](docs/README.md)
- [Panels Overview](docs/panels/README.md)
- [Example Configurations](docs/Example_Config.md)
- [Icons Cheatsheet](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/happydasch/nspanel_haui/master/docs/cheatsheet.html)
- [Thread in HomeAssistant Community](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/sonoff-nspanel-haui-homeassistant-ui/578570)

## Development

For details about how the parts of the whole system communicate together see [NSPanel HomeAssistant UI Docs](docs/README.md).

- [Design Guidelines](docs/Design.md)
- [Communication Description](docs/Communication.md)
- [ESPHome Component](docs/ESPHome.md)
- [AppDaemon Component](docs/AppDaemon.md)
- [Nextion Component](docs/Nextion.md)

## Roadmap

- **Version 0.1.x**: Into the wild - basic functionality, auto updates, cleanups

  First versions, get basic functionality running

- **Version 0.2.x**: Sort it out - configuration and entity handling

  Configuration and entity handling, more definitions, better code, sort out issues

- **Additional upcoming functionality:**

  - Panels:
    - Thermo
    - Cover
    - Alarm?

## Resources

The project is based on the ideas of [NSPanel Lovelace UI](https://github.com/joBr99/nspanel-lovelace-ui) and [NSPanel Custom with HA Blueprint](https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint).

- https://esphome.io
- https://nextion.tech/instruction-set/
- https://docs.nspanel.pky.eu/
- https://github.com/joBr99/nspanel-lovelace-ui
- https://github.com/joBr99/Generate-HASP-Fonts
- https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint
- https://github.com/masto/NSPanel-Demo-Files
- https://github.com/marcfager/nspanel-mf
- https://github.com/krizkontrolz/Home-Assistant-nextion_handler
