docs/panels/panel_qr.md, before:

# Panel QR-Code

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel QR-Code](#panel-qr-code)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [QR-Code Format](#qr-code-format)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: qr`

The QR-Code panel can be used to display a qr code containing provided informations for example wifi access.

The panel can show 2 different qr code sizes. It will display a big qr code if there are no entities configured. If there are entities then a smaller qr code will be shown on one half and entity informations on the other.

If the smaller qr code is available, by touching the qr code the big qr code will be displayed and vice versa.

If the big qr code is activated, then the display will not turn off.

The entity values will be split on two lines if value is longer than 15 characters.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # big qr code
  - type: qr
    qr_code: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;

  # small qr code
  - type: qr
    qr_code: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;
    entities:
      - entity: "text:Test 1"
        name: Title 1
        icon: mdi:key
      - entity: "text:Test 2"
        name: Title 2
        icon: mdi:wifi
```

### QR-Code Format

Source: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code#Joining_a_Wi%E2%80%91Fi_network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code#Joining_a_Wi%E2%80%91Fi_network)

The qr code can be created by using the format below.

```yaml
    Common format: WIFI:S:<SSID>;T:<WEP|WPA|blank>;P:<PASSWORD>;H:<true|false|blank>;;
    Sample: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;
```

## Screens

![Subpanel QR-Code](../assets/subpanel_qr.png)

![Panel QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr.png)

Panel with zoomed qr-code:

![Panel QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr_zoom.png)

Big qr-code without text:

![Panel Big QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr_only_qr.png)

Commit message:

Develop (#33)
- update: docs
- update: tft and hmi files
- design: sliders are wider now
- design: clock panel restyled
- design: bigger power buttons in grid panel
- wakeup: added different wakeup options for sleep/wakeup screen, improved wakeup
- feat: config param for entities to override the default popup panel
- chore: update light panel
- fix: media panel media sources
- feat: add possibility to start with big qr

docs/panels/panel_qr.md, after:

# Panel QR-Code

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel QR-Code](#panel-qr-code)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [QR-Code Format](#qr-code-format)
    - [Start with big QR](#start-with-big-qr)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: qr`

The QR-Code panel can be used to display a qr code containing provided informations for example wifi access.

The panel can show 2 different qr code sizes. It will display a big qr code if there are no entities configured. If there are entities then a smaller qr code will be shown on one half and entity informations on the other.

If the smaller qr code is available, by touching the qr code the big qr code will be displayed and vice versa.

If the big qr code is activated, then the display will not turn off.

The entity values will be split on two lines if value is longer than 15 characters.

The panel can be started with a big QR by setting `big_qr` to True.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # big qr code
  - type: qr
    qr_code: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;
    big_qr: true

  # small qr code
  - type: qr
    qr_code: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;
    big_qr: false
    entities:
      - entity: "text:Test 1"
        name: Title 1
        icon: mdi:key
      - entity: "text:Test 2"
        name: Title 2
        icon: mdi:wifi
```

### QR-Code Format

Source: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code#Joining_a_Wi%E2%80%91Fi_network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code#Joining_a_Wi%E2%80%91Fi_network)

The qr code can be created by using the format below.

```yaml
    Common format: WIFI:S:<SSID>;T:<WEP|WPA|blank>;P:<PASSWORD>;H:<true|false|blank>;;
    Sample: WIFI:S:MySSID;T:WPA;P:MyPassW0rd;;
```

### Start with big QR

```yaml
- type: qr
  ...
  big_qr: true
```

## Screens

![Subpanel QR-Code](../assets/subpanel_qr.png)

![Panel QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr.png)

Panel with zoomed qr-code:

![Panel QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr_zoom.png)

Big qr-code without text:

![Panel Big QR-Code](../assets/panel_qr_only_qr.png)
