docs/panels/panel_weather.md, before:

# Panel Weather

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel Weather](#panel-weather)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [Background](#background)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: weather`

The weather panel can be used as a "screensaver". It will show weather details and other configured informations.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # weather panel
  - type: weather
    entity: weather.home

  # weather panel with a background
  - type: weather
    entity: weather.home
    background: dog_1
```

### Background

The weather can have different background images. To set a background use the `background` param.

Possible values:

- default
- spring
- summer
- autumn
- winter
- dog_1
- dog_2
- cat

Dynamic background values are possible using HomeAssistant templates.

`background: template:{...}`

The return value should match a background name.

## Screens

![Panel Weather](../assets/panel_weather.png)

![Panel Weather Background](../assets/panel_weather_background.png)

Commit message:

preparing new release
native esphome nextion component is being used, supports get value and get text from display

fixed small issues when an entity is off:
- brightness None
- no rgb color

changed next page pos and fixed count of pages

touch x and y internal

updated esphome config

updated tft

updated vacuum page

updated docs

docs and comments

updated translations

updated / fixed config handling, wakeup page

autostart page if page id did not change

fixed wakeup page handling, switch to home panel after touch

fixed font size timer page

ensure system page is active if not connected

use accent color for locate

removed forecast functionality from entity methods

updated clock panel, support for forecast see faq

docs/panels/panel_weather.md, after:

# Panel Weather

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel Weather](#panel-weather)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [Forecast](#forecast)
    - [Background](#background)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: weather`

The weather panel can be used as a "screensaver". It will show weather details and other configured informations.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # weather panel
  - type: weather
    entity: weather.home

  # weather panel with forecast
  - type: weather
    entity: weather.home
    forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly

  # weather panel with a background and forecast
  - type: weather
    entity: weather.home
    forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly
    background: dog_1
```

### Forecast

To get weather forecasts on the panel, the sensor containing the forecast data needs to be set. Use the `forecast` param.

`forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly` or `forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_daily`.

See [FAQ](../FAQ.md) for details about the forecast sensor.

### Background

The weather can have different background images. To set a background use the `background` param.

Possible values:

- default
- spring
- summer
- autumn
- winter
- dog_1
- dog_2
- cat

Dynamic background values are possible using HomeAssistant templates.

`background: template:{...}`

The return value should match a background name.

## Screens

![Panel Weather](../assets/panel_weather.png)
![Panel Weather Simple](../assets/panel_weather_simple.png)

![Panel Weather Background](../assets/panel_weather_background.png)
