docs/panels/panel_clock.md, before:

# Panel Clock

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel Clock](#panel-clock)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [Background](#background)
    - [Show weather](#show-weather)
    - [Show temperature](#show-temperature)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: clock`

The clock panel shows a big clock and uses 4 entities for the weather conditions display.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # clock panel
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home

  # clock panel with a different background
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home
    background: dog_1

  # clock panel without current weather and temperature
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home
    show_weather: False
    show_temp: False
```

### Background

The clock panel can have different background images. To set a background use the `background` param.

Possible values:

- default
- spring
- summer
- autumn
- winter
- dog_1
- dog_2
- cat

Dynamic background values are possible using HomeAssistant templates.

`background: template:{...}`

The return value should match a background name.

### Show weather

The main weather icon can be hidden by setting `show_weather` to `False`

### Show temperature

The main temperature text can be hidden by setting `show_temp` to `False`

## Screens

![Panel Clock](../assets/panel_clock.png)

![Panel Clock Background](../assets/panel_clock_background.png)

Commit message:

preparing new release
native esphome nextion component is being used, supports get value and get text from display

fixed small issues when an entity is off:
- brightness None
- no rgb color

changed next page pos and fixed count of pages

touch x and y internal

updated esphome config

updated tft

updated vacuum page

updated docs

docs and comments

updated translations

updated / fixed config handling, wakeup page

autostart page if page id did not change

fixed wakeup page handling, switch to home panel after touch

fixed font size timer page

ensure system page is active if not connected

use accent color for locate

removed forecast functionality from entity methods

updated clock panel, support for forecast see faq

docs/panels/panel_clock.md, after:

# Panel Clock

[< All Panels](README.md) | [Configuration](../Config.md) | [FAQ](../FAQ.md)

- [Panel Clock](#panel-clock)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [Background](#background)
    - [Forecast](#forecast)
    - [Show weather](#show-weather)
    - [Show temperature](#show-temperature)
  - [Screens](#screens)

## About

`type: clock`

The clock panel shows a big clock and uses 4 entities for the weather conditions display.

## Config

```yaml
panels:

  # clock panel
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home

  # clock panel with forecast
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home
    forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly

  # clock panel with a different background
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home
    background: dog_1

  # clock panel without current weather, forecast and temperature
  - type: clock
    entity: weather.home
    forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly
    show_weather: False
    show_temp: False
```

### Background

The clock panel can have different background images. To set a background use the `background` param.

Possible values:

- default
- spring
- summer
- autumn
- winter
- dog_1
- dog_2
- cat

Dynamic background values are possible using HomeAssistant templates.

`background: template:{...}`

The return value should match a background name.

### Forecast

To get weather forecasts on the panel, the sensor containing the forecast data needs to be set. Use the `forecast` param.

`forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_hourly` or `forecast: sensor.weather_forecast_daily`.

See [FAQ](/docs/FAQ.md) for details about the forecast sensor.

### Show weather

The main weather icon can be hidden by setting `show_weather` to `False`

### Show temperature

The main temperature text can be hidden by setting `show_temp` to `False`

## Screens

![Panel Clock](../assets/panel_clock.png)

![Panel Clock Simple](../assets/panel_clock_simple.png)

![Panel Clock Background](../assets/panel_clock_background.png)
