docs/ESPHome.md, before:

# ESPHome Component

[README](../README.md) | [Documentation](README.md) | [Installation](Install.md) | [Configuration](Config.md) | [Panels](panels/README.md) | [FAQ](FAQ.md)

The NSPanel is operating on a ESP32. To provide access to the NSPanel via HomeAssistant, ESPHome is being used.

- Provides Scripts and Services for Communication with display
- Responsible for handling the device functionality

See `device/nspanel-haui.yaml` for the configuration file for your device.

The communication between ESPHome is done mostly via MQTT.

- [ESPHome Component](#esphome-component)
  - [Config](#config)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Custom Component](#custom-component)
  - [Getting Data](#getting-data)
  - [Communication](#communication)
  - [Requests](#requests)
  - [Responses](#responses)
  - [Commands](#commands)
  - [Events](#events)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Page](#page)
  - [Interaction](#interaction)
    - [Interaction Sensors](#interaction-sensors)
  - [Brightness and Dimming](#brightness-and-dimming)
    - [Brightness Sensors](#brightness-sensors)
  - [Temperature](#temperature)
  - [Buttons](#buttons)
  - [Diagnostics](#diagnostics)
  - [Resources](#resources)

## Config

An overview of all configuration variables defined in the ESPHome yaml file.

- `yaml_version` (0.0.0)
- `required_tft_version` (0.0.0)
- `device_name` (nspanel-haui)
- `friendly_name` (NSPanel HAUI)
- `heartbeat_interval` (5)
- `topic_prefix` (nspanel_haui/nspanel_haui)
- `topic_cmd` ($topic_prefix/cmd)  # used for sending events
- `topic_recv` ($topic_prefix/recv)  # used to recieve events
- `ota_password` (!secret ota_password)
- `encryption_key` (!secret encryption_key)
- `web_username` (!secret web_username)
- `web_password` (!secret web_password)
- `wifi_ssid` (!secret wifi_ssid)
- `wifi_password` (!secret wifi_password)
- `mqtt_ip` (!secret mqtt_ip)
- `mqtt_username` (!secret mqtt_username)
- `mqtt_password` (!secret mqtt_password)
- `tft_update_url` ([http://homeassistant.local:8123/local/nspanel/nspanel.tft](http://homeassistant.local:8123/local/nspanel/nspanel.tft))

## Installation

1. Copy custom component to server
2. esp code update using yaml file

## Custom Component

A custom esphome component `nspanel_haui` is being used. The component is based on the nextion component but supports a different kind of accessing data.

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/1_nspanel_haui_component.yaml`

Following functionality is provided by the component:

- some of the serial processing functionality from nextion, parsing data:

  - 0x00 - 0x24: status
  - 0x66: page
  - 0x65, 0x67, 0x68: touch
  - 0x70, 0x71: vars
  - 0x86,0x87: wakeup, sleep
  - 0x88: startup

- component callback methods:

  - on_component (press and release events)
  - on_touch (through using sendxy)
  - on_page (through using sendme)

- communication methods:

  - send_command
  - set_component_int
  - set_component_txt
  - get_int_value
  - get_txt_value
  - get_component_txt
  - get_component_int

- all processing needs to be manually, all value requests needs to be done manually

- updated uploader working with http/https

## Getting Data

There are different methods to get data from the display. The requests are published with MQTT. The response will be returned after. See [Requests](#requests) for different methods.

## Communication

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/2_nspanel_connection.yaml`

A description of events being used for communication between ESP and AppDaemon.

- `heartbeat` Heartbeat Event:

  Will be published every 5 seconds (can be changed in config)
  Value: string (alive)

  The client will get an heartbeat timeout after heartbeat_interval * 2 (can be changed in the config) and will reset to system page.

- `req_connection` Connection Request
- `res_connection` Connection Response
- `ad_heartbeat` Server Heartbeat Response
- `ad_connection_initialized` Server Response
- `ad_connection_closed` Server Response

## Requests

These events will get a response.

- `req_device_info` Device Info Request
- `req_device_state` Device State Request
- `req_reconnect` Reconnect Request
- `req_int_value` Number Value Request
- `req_txt_value` Text Value Request
- `req_component_int` Component Number Value Request
- `req_component_txt` Component Text Value Request

## Responses

These responses will be sent after a request.

- `res_device_state` Device State Event:

  Will be published after sending request `req_device_state`
  Value: json encoded string

- `res_device_info` Device Info Event:

  Will be published after sending request `req_device_info`
  Value: json encoded string

- `res_int_value` Number Value Response
- `res_txt_value` Text Value Response
- `res_component_int` Component Number Value Response
- `res_component_txt` Component Text Value Response

## Commands

These are commands that are being executed on the ESP.

- `send_command` Sends a command to the nextion display
- `send_commands`Sends multiple commands to the nextion display
- `set_component_text` Sets a component text on the nextion display
- `set_component_value` Sets a component value on the nextion display
- `goto_page` Sets the active page on display

## Events

Different ESP device events.

- `connected` Connected Event:

  Will be sent after connection was established

- `sleep` Sleep Event:

  Display went to sleep

- `wakeup` Wakeup Event:

  Display woke up

- `page` Page Change Event:

  A new page was opened
  Value: page_id

- `brightness` Brightness Change Event:

  The brightness was changed
  Value: brightness

- `component` Component Press Event:

  The component was pressed

- `touch_start` Touch Pressed Event:

  The touch screen was pressed
  Value: -

- `touch` Touch Event:

  The touch screen is active
  Value: touch_x,touch_y

- `touch_end` Touch Released Event:

  The touch screen was released
  Value: start_x,start_y,end_x,end_y

- `gesture` Touch Gesture Event:

  The gesture was recognized on the screen
  Value: gesture_str

- `button_left` Left Physical Button Pressed Event:

  The left physical button was pressed
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `button_right` Right Physical Button Pressed Event:

  The right physical button was pressed
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `relay_left` Relay Switched Event:

  The left relay was switched
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `relay_right` Relay Switched Event:

  The right relay was switched
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `timeout` Timeout Event:

  An internal timeout happened (dim, page, sleep)
  Value: timeout type (string)

- `display_state` Display State Event:

  Current display state (on, off, dim)
  Value: state type (string)

## Scripts

This scripts below are defined on the ESP. Most of the device functionality is defined here.

- `send_command` Service to send a command

  This will send a command to the nextion display

- `upload_tft` Service to update a TFT file

  This will update the nextion display with the tft file

- `upload_tft_url` Service to update a TFT file from URL

- `set_component_text` Service to set the text of a component

- `set_component_value` Service to set the value of a component

- `set_brightness` Service to change the brightness of the display

- `goto_page` Service to change the page of the display

- `play_rtttl` Service to play a song for RTTTL strings

  RTTTL Strings

  ```text
  startup:4:d=4,o=5,b=200:8c7,8g7,8d7,8g7
  tone:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16e6
  tone_up:4:d=16,o=5,b=160:16e6,16g6
  tone_down:4:d=16,o=5,b=160:16g6,16d6
  notification:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16e,16c6,16g6,8c6,8g6
  alert_fast:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16e7
  alert:4:d=16,o=6,b=400:16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16e7
  ```

  Other sounds from different sources:

  ```text
  startup_long:d=16,o=5,b=180:c,e,g,c6,8p,c,16p,e,c
  startup:d=16,o=5,b=180:c,e,g,c6
  two short:d=4,o=5,b=100:16e6,16e6
  short:d=4,o=5,b=100:16e6
  scale_up:d=32,o=5,b=100:c,c#,d#,e,f#,g#,a#,b
  chirp6:d=4,o=5,b=400:c6
  doodle-dah:d=8,o=5,b=250:d#6,a5#,d#6
  doodle-duh:d=8,o=5,b=250:d#6,a5#,d#5
  ```

- `play_sound` Service to play a named sound

- `publish_event` Service to publish an event

- `reset_last_interaction` Service to reset the last interaction value

  This will update the last interaction value to now

- `reset_last_interaction_offset` Service to reset the last interaction value adding an offset

## Page

These events will be sent out when the device have some page related events.

- `page` (0 - 255)
  The page that is being displayed

  The nextion variable dp is being used to set the page_id

- `timeout_page` (0 - 3600)

  Page switch timeout, will be restored on reboot

  Value > 0 activates the timeout

- After Page Timeout: page goes to sleep_page (default if not set)

## Interaction

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/3_nspanel_interaction.yaml`

When tracking the last interaction with the device, two input methods are possible: Touchscreen and Buttons. It's possible to disable button as an interaction source by switching off `use_button_interaction`.

### Interaction Sensors

The ESP provides some interaction related events. See below for a overview of all sensors. Some sensors are set to internal to not pollute HA.

- `touch` (button)

  Touch State, the state is being set based on the `touch_x` and `touch_y` values

- `touch_x` (0 - 480=display width)

  Current touch x coordinates (0 when released)

- `touch_y` (0 - 320=display height)

  Current touch y coordinates (0 when released)

- `button_left` (physical button left)

  Physical button left state

- `button_right` (physical button right)

  Physical button right state

- `use_button_interaction` (switch)

  Should buttons be used for updating last interaction time.

- `use_auto_dimming` (switch)

  Should display be automatically dimmed.

- `use_auto_page` (switch)

  Should page be automatically switched.

- `use_auto_sleeping` (switch)

  Should display be automatically go to sleep.

- `relay_left` (relay switch)

- `relay_right` (relay switch)

- `use_relay_left` (switch)

  Defines if the physical button left should use the internal relay

- `use_relay_right` (switch)

  Defines if the physical button right should use the internal relay

- `last_interaction` (millis()/1000)

  Last time when a interaction happened with the display

## Brightness and Dimming

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/4_nspanel_dimming.yaml`

The whole brightness and dimming functionality is implemented on the ESPHome device.

The brightness change process is processed this way:

- **Within Dimming Timeout:** full brightness is being used

- **After Dimming Timeout:** dimmed brightness is being used, duration is defined by dimming duration

- **After Sleep Timeout:** brightness goes to 0, sleep mode is activated,
  duration is defined by dimming duration

### Brightness Sensors

Brightness related sensors.

- `brightness` (0 - 100)

  Current brightness, taken from nextion var

- `brightness_full` (1 - 100)

  Full brightness, will be restored on reboot

- `brightness_dim` (0 - 100)

  Dimmed brightness, will be restored on reboot

- `duration_dim` (0.0 - 10.0)

  Dimming duration, will be restored on reboot

- `timeout_dim` (0 - 3600)

  Dimming timeout after last interaction, will be restored on reboot
  Value > 0 activates the timeout

- `timeout_sleep` (0 - 3600)

  Sleeping mode timeout, will be restored on reboot
  Value > 0 activates the timeout

## Temperature

Temperature related sensor.

- `temperature` (in celsius)

  Temperature sensor reading

- `temperature_correction` (-10.0 - 10.0)

  Correction for sensor reading

## Buttons

Buttons provided by the ESP.

- `upload_tft`

  This button uploads the tft from a configured url to nextion

- `restart`

  Restarts the device

- `restart_display`

  Restarts the display

- `factory_reset`

  Resets the device

## Diagnostics

Diagnostics related sensors.

- WIFI Info: Different values from wifi
- Uptime: Device uptime

## Resources

- https://esphome.io
- https://nextion.tech/instruction-set/
- https://github.com/masto/NSPanel-Demo-Files
- https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint
- https://github.com/marcfager/nspanel-mf
- https://github.com/joBr99/nspanel-lovelace-ui
- https://github.com/Blackymas/NSPanel_HA_Blueprint
- https://github.com/krizkontrolz/Home-Assistant-nextion_handler

Commit message:

Installation and first run
created an install and update process based on available functionality of custom component

- load custom component from github
- load esphome compoent from github
- load display tft file from github

if a invalid version is installed on the device, the AD app will automatically install the latest available tft file from github

the config is now using remote packages for the config, so it is split into install.yaml and nspanel_haui.yaml

updated docs and install process description

docs/ESPHome.md, after:

# ESPHome Component

[README](../README.md) | [Documentation](README.md) | [Installation](Install.md) | [Configuration](Config.md) | [Panels](panels/README.md) | [FAQ](FAQ.md)

The NSPanel is operating on a ESP32. To provide access to the NSPanel via HomeAssistant, ESPHome is being used.

- Provides Scripts and Services for Communication with display
- Responsible for handling the device functionality

See `device/install.yaml` for the installation configuration. This file is going to be installed on the device.

See `device/nspanel_haui.yaml` for the esphome configuration file. This file contains all ESPHome functionality.

The communication between ESPHome is done mostly via MQTT.

- [ESPHome Component](#esphome-component)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Config](#config)
  - [Custom Component](#custom-component)
  - [Getting Data](#getting-data)
  - [Communication](#communication)
  - [Requests](#requests)
  - [Responses](#responses)
  - [Commands](#commands)
  - [Events](#events)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Page](#page)
  - [Interaction](#interaction)
    - [Interaction Sensors](#interaction-sensors)
  - [Brightness and Dimming](#brightness-and-dimming)
    - [Brightness Sensors](#brightness-sensors)
  - [Temperature](#temperature)
  - [Buttons](#buttons)
  - [Diagnostics](#diagnostics)

## Installation

Copy the secrets from `device/secrets.yaml` and add them in ESPHome by pressing the `Secrets` Link in the right corner. This step is not neccessary if you add the secrets directly in the config file.

To install ESPHome on the device use the config from `device/install.yaml`. Edit the substitution values and install the device.

If the device shows up in Home Assistant you can manually install the TFT file by pressing the `Upload Display` button. The TFT file will automatically be installed when the device connects to the AppDaemon app.

See [Nextion](Nextion.md) for more details about the display.

## Config

An overview of all configuration variables defined in the ESPHome yaml file.

- `heartbeat_interval` (5)
- `device_name` (nspanel-haui)
- `friendly_name` (NSPanel HAUI)
- `mqtt_device_name` (nspanel_haui)
- `mqtt_ip` (!secret mqtt_ip)
- `mqtt_username` (!secret mqtt_username)
- `mqtt_password` (!secret mqtt_password)
- `topic_prefix` (nspanel_haui/nspanel_haui)
- `topic_cmd` ($topic_prefix/cmd)
- `topic_recv` ($topic_prefix/recv)
- `ota_password` (!secret ota_password)
- `encryption_key` (!secret encryption_key)
- `web_username` (!secret web_username)
- `web_password` (!secret web_password)
- `wifi_ssid` (!secret wifi_ssid)
- `wifi_password` (!secret wifi_password)
- `tft_update_url` ([https://github.com/happydasch/nspanel_haui/raw/master/device/nspanel_haui.tft](https://github.com/happydasch/nspanel_haui/raw/master/device/nspanel_haui.tft))

## Custom Component

A custom esphome component `nspanel_haui` is being used. The component is based on the nextion component but supports a different kind of accessing data.

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/1_nspanel_haui_component.yaml`

Following functionality is provided by the component:

- some of the serial processing functionality from nextion, parsing data:

  - 0x00 - 0x24: status
  - 0x66: page
  - 0x65, 0x67, 0x68: touch
  - 0x70, 0x71: vars
  - 0x86,0x87: wakeup, sleep
  - 0x88: startup

- component callback methods:

  - on_component (press and release events)
  - on_touch (through using sendxy)
  - on_page (through using sendme)

- communication methods:

  - send_command
  - set_component_int
  - set_component_txt
  - get_int_value
  - get_txt_value
  - get_component_txt
  - get_component_int

- all processing needs to be manually, all value requests needs to be done manually

- updated uploader working with http/https

## Getting Data

There are different methods to get data from the display. The requests are published with MQTT. The response will be returned after. See [Requests](#requests) for different methods.

## Communication

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/2_nspanel_connection.yaml`

A description of events being used for communication between ESP and AppDaemon.

- `heartbeat` Heartbeat Event:

  Will be published every 5 seconds (can be changed in config)
  Value: string (alive)

  The client will get an heartbeat timeout after heartbeat_interval * 2 (can be changed in the config) and will reset to system page.

- `req_connection` Connection Request
- `res_connection` Connection Response
- `ad_heartbeat` Server Heartbeat Response
- `ad_connection_initialized` Server Response
- `ad_connection_closed` Server Response

## Requests

These events will get a response.

- `req_device_info` Device Info Request
- `req_device_state` Device State Request
- `req_reconnect` Reconnect Request
- `req_int_value` Number Value Request
- `req_txt_value` Text Value Request
- `req_component_int` Component Number Value Request
- `req_component_txt` Component Text Value Request

## Responses

These responses will be sent after a request.

- `res_device_state` Device State Event:

  Will be published after sending request `req_device_state`
  Value: json encoded string

- `res_device_info` Device Info Event:

  Will be published after sending request `req_device_info`
  Value: json encoded string

- `res_int_value` Number Value Response
- `res_txt_value` Text Value Response
- `res_component_int` Component Number Value Response
- `res_component_txt` Component Text Value Response

## Commands

These are commands that are being executed on the ESP.

- `send_command` Sends a command to the nextion display
- `send_commands`Sends multiple commands to the nextion display
- `set_component_text` Sets a component text on the nextion display
- `set_component_value` Sets a component value on the nextion display
- `goto_page` Sets the active page on display

## Events

Different ESP device events.

- `connected` Connected Event:

  Will be sent after connection was established

- `sleep` Sleep Event:

  Display went to sleep

- `wakeup` Wakeup Event:

  Display woke up

- `page` Page Change Event:

  A new page was opened
  Value: page_id

- `brightness` Brightness Change Event:

  The brightness was changed
  Value: brightness

- `component` Component Press Event:

  The component was pressed

- `touch_start` Touch Pressed Event:

  The touch screen was pressed
  Value: -

- `touch` Touch Event:

  The touch screen is active
  Value: touch_x,touch_y

- `touch_end` Touch Released Event:

  The touch screen was released
  Value: start_x,start_y,end_x,end_y

- `gesture` Touch Gesture Event:

  The gesture was recognized on the screen
  Value: gesture_str

- `button_left` Left Physical Button Pressed Event:

  The left physical button was pressed
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `button_right` Right Physical Button Pressed Event:

  The right physical button was pressed
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `relay_left` Relay Switched Event:

  The left relay was switched
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `relay_right` Relay Switched Event:

  The right relay was switched
  Value: state (1 or 0)

- `timeout` Timeout Event:

  An internal timeout happened (dim, page, sleep)
  Value: timeout type (string)

- `display_state` Display State Event:

  Current display state (on, off, dim)
  Value: state type (string)

## Scripts

This scripts below are defined on the ESP. Most of the device functionality is defined here.

- `send_command` Service to send a command

  This will send a command to the nextion display

- `upload_tft` Service to update a TFT file

  This will update the nextion display with the tft file

- `upload_tft_url` Service to update a TFT file from URL

- `set_component_text` Service to set the text of a component

- `set_component_value` Service to set the value of a component

- `set_brightness` Service to change the brightness of the display

- `goto_page` Service to change the page of the display

- `play_rtttl` Service to play a song for RTTTL strings

  RTTTL Strings

  ```text
  startup:4:d=4,o=5,b=200:8c7,8g7,8d7,8g7
  tone:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16e6
  tone_up:4:d=16,o=5,b=160:16e6,16g6
  tone_down:4:d=16,o=5,b=160:16g6,16d6
  notification:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16e,16c6,16g6,8c6,8g6
  alert_fast:4:d=8,o=6,b=200:16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16e7
  alert:4:d=16,o=6,b=400:16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16c7,16d7,16e7
  ```

  Other sounds from different sources:

  ```text
  startup_long:d=16,o=5,b=180:c,e,g,c6,8p,c,16p,e,c
  startup:d=16,o=5,b=180:c,e,g,c6
  two short:d=4,o=5,b=100:16e6,16e6
  short:d=4,o=5,b=100:16e6
  scale_up:d=32,o=5,b=100:c,c#,d#,e,f#,g#,a#,b
  chirp6:d=4,o=5,b=400:c6
  doodle-dah:d=8,o=5,b=250:d#6,a5#,d#6
  doodle-duh:d=8,o=5,b=250:d#6,a5#,d#5
  ```

- `play_sound` Service to play a named sound

- `publish_event` Service to publish an event

- `reset_last_interaction` Service to reset the last interaction value

  This will update the last interaction value to now

- `reset_last_interaction_offset` Service to reset the last interaction value adding an offset

## Page

These events will be sent out when the device have some page related events.

- `page` (0 - 255)
  The page that is being displayed

  The nextion variable dp is being used to set the page_id

- `timeout_page` (0 - 3600)

  Page switch timeout, will be restored on reboot

  Value > 0 activates the timeout

- After Page Timeout: page goes to sleep_page (default if not set)

## Interaction

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/3_nspanel_interaction.yaml`

When tracking the last interaction with the device, two input methods are possible: Touchscreen and Buttons. It's possible to disable button as an interaction source by switching off `use_button_interaction`.

### Interaction Sensors

The ESP provides some interaction related events. See below for a overview of all sensors. Some sensors are set to internal to not pollute HA.

- `touch` (button)

  Touch State, the state is being set based on the `touch_x` and `touch_y` values

- `touch_x` (0 - 480=display width)

  Current touch x coordinates (0 when released)

- `touch_y` (0 - 320=display height)

  Current touch y coordinates (0 when released)

- `button_left` (physical button left)

  Physical button left state

- `button_right` (physical button right)

  Physical button right state

- `use_button_interaction` (switch)

  Should buttons be used for updating last interaction time.

- `use_auto_dimming` (switch)

  Should display be automatically dimmed.

- `use_auto_page` (switch)

  Should page be automatically switched.

- `use_auto_sleeping` (switch)

  Should display be automatically go to sleep.

- `relay_left` (relay switch)

- `relay_right` (relay switch)

- `use_relay_left` (switch)

  Defines if the physical button left should use the internal relay

- `use_relay_right` (switch)

  Defines if the physical button right should use the internal relay

- `last_interaction` (millis()/1000)

  Last time when a interaction happened with the display

## Brightness and Dimming

The name of the configuration for this functionality is `device/dev/4_nspanel_dimming.yaml`

The whole brightness and dimming functionality is implemented on the ESPHome device.

The brightness change process is processed this way:

- **Within Dimming Timeout:** full brightness is being used

- **After Dimming Timeout:** dimmed brightness is being used, duration is defined by dimming duration

- **After Sleep Timeout:** brightness goes to 0, sleep mode is activated,
  duration is defined by dimming duration

### Brightness Sensors

Brightness related sensors.

- `brightness` (0 - 100)

  Current brightness, taken from nextion var

- `brightness_full` (1 - 100)

  Full brightness, will be restored on reboot

- `brightness_dim` (0 - 100)

  Dimmed brightness, will be restored on reboot

- `duration_dim` (0.0 - 10.0)

  Dimming duration, will be restored on reboot

- `timeout_dim` (0 - 3600)

  Dimming timeout after last interaction, will be restored on reboot
  Value > 0 activates the timeout

- `timeout_sleep` (0 - 3600)

  Sleeping mode timeout, will be restored on reboot
  Value > 0 activates the timeout

## Temperature

Temperature related sensor.

- `temperature` (in celsius)

  Temperature sensor reading

- `temperature_correction` (-10.0 - 10.0)

  Correction for sensor reading

## Buttons

Buttons provided by the ESP.

- `upload_tft`

  This button uploads the tft from a configured url to nextion

- `restart`

  Restarts the device

- `restart_display`

  Restarts the display

- `factory_reset`

  Resets the device

## Diagnostics

Diagnostics related sensors.

- WIFI Info: Different values from wifi
- Uptime: Device uptime
